documentation for new OLM command workflows (#16)
operator-framework/enhancements: enhancements/olm-cmd-workflows.md

## Proposal

### README

The following document discusses workflows for creating a new operator and running it with OLM:

Operator creation workflow:

1. Create a new operator project using the SDK Command Line Interface(CLI)
2. Define new resource APIs by adding Custom Resource Definitions(CRD)
3. Define Controllers to watch and reconcile resources
4. Write the reconciling logic for your Controller using the SDK and controller-runtime APIs
5. Use the SDK CLI to build and generate the operator deployment manifests

OLM Workflow:

1. Use `operator-sdk generate bundle` to generate kustomize base templates with CSV metadata, build and push the operator bundle image to the specified registry.
  * If the kustomize template having the operator and UI metadata is present, it is utilized along with the existing CRDs to build the operator image bundle.
  * If the kustomize template is not present, provide inputs regarding the UI metadata to the interactive prompts appearing further.
2. Use `operator-sdk run --olm` to generate kustomize base template with operator metadata, build and run the operator.

Command details:

1. `operator-sdk generate bundle`:

> The `operator-sdk generate bundle` command will create a kustomize base template containing metadata for the generation of CSV, build and push the operator image bundle to the specified registry.

Reviewer: Do we want `generate bundle` to be concerned with building and pushing images?

I recall there being discussion that `generate bundle` would create/update the ./bundle ensure a Dockerfile exists (perhaps called `./bundle.Dockerfile`), and then the user can use whatever tooling they want to build and push.

Author: Updated the command workflow for `generate bundle` to create customize base template and dockerfile.

```
Usgae:
    operator-sdk generate bundle <IMG_REGISTRY>/<TAG> [optional flags]

    Flags:
        -p, --package string    (optional) The name of the package that bundle belongs to. Set if package name differs from project name.
        -d, --kustomize-dir     (optional) Path to the directory containing kustomize base templates. Default: ./config.

>         -o, --output-dir        (optional) Optional output directory if operator manifests are to be written on disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        -o, --output-dir        (optional) Optional output directory if operator manifests are to be written on disk. Default: ./bundle
```

If the command is run on a vanilla Operator-SDK project or when the existing kustomize template does not contain UI metadata for generating CSV, the command will be followed by a series of prompts asking the user for inputs. Example:
$ Provide DisplayName for your operator:		
$ Provide version for your operator:		
$ Provide minKubeVersion for CSV:
$ Provide the list of maintainers for the operator:
$ Provide the list of relevant links for the operator:
```

2. `operator-sdk run --olm`:

> The `operator-sdk run --olm` command will generate kustomize base templates conataining operator metadata and deploy the operator on cluster. It can be used to rapidly build, deploy and test your operator using OLM. The kustomize templates to be used for generating manifests can also be specified using the `--kustomize-dir` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `operator-sdk run --olm` command will render Kubernetes resources from the kustomize base templates conataining operator metadata and deploy the operator on cluster. It can be used to rapidly build, deploy and test your operator using OLM. The kustomize templates to be used for generating manifests can also be specified using the `--kustomize-dir` flag.
```

## Goals

The proposal is aimed at explaining the resulting process of developing an OLM enabled operator from scratch with the above mentioned improvements.

## Proposal

### README

The following document discusses workflows for creating a new operator and running it with OLM:

Operator creation workflow:

1. Create a new operator project using the SDK Command Line Interface(CLI)
2. Define new resource APIs by adding Custom Resource Definitions(CRD)
3. Define Controllers to watch and reconcile resources
4. Write the reconciling logic for your Controller using the SDK and controller-runtime APIs
5. Use the SDK CLI to build and generate the operator deployment manifests

OLM Workflow:

> 1. Use `operator-sdk generate bundle` to generate kustomize base templates with CSV metadata and Dockerfile to build the operator.

Reviewer 2: @varshaprasad96 @dmesser a few thoughts on the base project -> OLM-ready workflow:

Eventually we'll want to move bundle (manifest) generation to `kustomize` to align with kubebuilder-style deployment. This will be especially relevant when CSV-less bundles come around. Therefore I don't thing we should build `generate bundle` so that it both ingests manifests from disk/stdin AND generates UI metadata. There should be a step, perhaps in `operator-sdk init`, that scaffolds UI metadata in a [base](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/docs/glossary.md#base). The user then updates it manually or via an interactive prompt, after which they can run `kustomize build config/olm-catalog` to generate their bundle to disk or as input to `bundle create` or `run --olm`.

The workflow then becomes:
```console
$ operator-sdk init
Interactive metadata prompt. Please fill in the following UI fields:
...
$ operator-sdk create api --group cache --version v1 --kind Memcached
...
```
Then:
```console
$ make manifests-olm
kustomize build config/olm-catalog | operator-sdk generate bundle --output-dir config/olm-catalog/manifests
```
or
```console
$ make bundle IMG=quay.io/example/memcached-operator:v0.0.1
kustomize build config/olm-catalog | operator-sdk create bundle quay.io/example/memcached-operator:v0.0.1
```
or
```console
$ make run-olm
kustomize build config/olm-catalog | operator-sdk run --olm
```

The make recipes above are just suggestions to illustrate how moving to `kustomize` will be much more flexible. I have something a little different set up in https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/2860 because we still need to regenerate CSV definitions from API types. Still tinkering around with that PR. Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: Regardless on-disk manifests in a kubebuilder project are mostly just bases, so _some_ part of bundle generation needs to be run through `kustomize`. We have two options then, which are inverses:

1. Run `kustomize | operator-sdk`, which is how kubebuilder does things.
1. Invoke `kustomize` within `operator-sdk`.

The former is a lot more appealing to me.
